feat: add Verifying image signatures blog (#100)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/05/verifying-image-signatures.md

---
title: "Secure Supply Chain: Verifying image signatures"
authors:
- Raul Cabello Martin

> date: 2022-05-02

Reviewer: Just make sure to bump this date to the date you will use at publishing time

---

> After these last releases Kubewarden now has support for verifying the integrity and authenticity of artefacts within

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After these last releases Kubewarden now has support for verifying the integrity and authenticity of artifacts within
```

Kubewarden using the Sigstore project. In this post, we shall focus on verifying container image signatures using the

> new [verify-image-signatures](https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures) policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new [verify-image-signatures](https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures) policy.
```

> If you don't know how Sigstore works, we recommend reading our

Reviewer: Personal taste, feels more informal and doesn't put pressure in understanding how sigstore works to keep reading this blog post

```suggestion
To learn more about how Sigstore works, take a look at our
```

previous [post](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/04/securing-kubewarden-policies/)

## Verify Image Signatures Policy

This policy validates Pods by checking their container images for signatures (that is, containers, init containers and 

> ephemera containers in the pod). If all signature validations pass or there is no container image that matches the image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ephemeral containers in the pod). If all signature validations pass or there is no container image that matches the image
```

> ephemeral containers in the pod). If all signature validations pass or there is no container image that matches the image
> name query, the Pod will be accepted.

Reviewer: I personally prefer something like that, the second sentence is not super clear to me

```suggestion
ephemeral containers in the pod).

The policy can inspect all the container images defined inside of a Pod or it can just analyze the ones that
are matching a pattern provided by the user.
```

Once the image has been verified with a signature, one needs to ensure that the specific image tag from that signature 

> is the one instantiated. This is achieved by the policy by mutating the Pod request and adding that validated image digest. 

Reviewer 2: Just a simple suggestion to remove the `by ... by`. If you think this is not necessary. Just mark the comment as resolved. ;)

```suggestion
is the one instantiated. The policy achieves this by mutating the pod request and adding that validated image digest
```

Author: it has been changed [here](https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/100/commits/a0ae28cf227cfff1a42cfaa4f8b39b3a76bf90b4)

> Once the image has been verified with a signature, one needs to ensure that the specific image tag from that signature 
> is the one instantiated. This is achieved by the policy by mutating the Pod request and adding that validated image digest. 

Reviewer: I also agree with Jose. On top of that, I think something like that would be maybe better:

```suggestion
Container image tags are mutable, they can be changed to point to a completely different content. That's why it's a
good security practice to reference container images by their immutable checksum.

This policy can rewrite the image definitions that are using a tag to instead reference the image by its checksum.

The policy will:
  * Ensure the image referenced by a tag is satisfying the signature requested by the operator
  * Extract the immutable reference of the image from the signatures
  * Rewrite the image reference to be in the form `<image ref>@sha256:<digest>`
```

This mutation can be disabled in the [settings](https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures#settings).

## Let's see it in action!

For this example, a Kubernetes cluster with Kubewarden already installed is required. The installation process is
described in the [quick start guide](https://docs.kubewarden.io/quick-start.html).

We need an image with a signature that we can verify. You can use [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) to sign
your images. For this example we'll use the image
`ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example:v0.1.0` that was signed using keyless verification. 

Obtain the issuer and subject using cosign.

```
COSIGN_EXPERIMENTAL=1 cosign verify ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example:v0.1.0
```

```
...
"Issuer": "https://github.com/login/oauth",
"Subject": "me@viccuad.me"
...
```

Let's create a cluster-wide policy that will verify all images, and

> we'll use the issuer and subject for verification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let's use the issuer and subject for verification:
```

```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: verify-image-signatures
spec:
  module: ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/verify-image-signatures:v0.1.4
  rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    apiVersions: ["v1"]
    resources: ["pods"]
    operations:
    - CREATE
    - UPDATE
  mutating: true
  settings:
    signatures:
      - image: "*"
        keyless:
          - issuer: "https://github.com/login/oauth"
            subject: "me@viccuad.me"
EOF
````

Wait for the policy to be active:

```
kubectl wait --for=condition=PolicyActive clusteradmissionpolicies verify-image-signatures
```

Verify we can create pods with containers that are signed:

```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: verify-image-valid
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test-verify-image
    image: ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example:v0.1.0
EOF
```

> Then check that the image was modified with the digest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then check that the image was modified with the digest:
```

```
kubectl get pod verify-image-valid -o=jsonpath='{.spec.containers[0].image}'
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will produce the following output:

```

```

> ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example:v0.1.0@sha256:d97d00f668dc5b7f0af65edbff6b37924c8e9b1edfc0ab0f7d2e522cab162d38

Reviewer: This is not a valid reference, it should be:

```
ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example@sha256:d97d00f668dc5b7f0af65edbff6b37924c8e9b1edfc0ab0f7d2e522cab162d38
```

Is that a typo or is the policy generating a broken ref?

Author: It's ok to leave the tag, that's a valid reference. You can check with 
```
docker pull ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example:v0.1.0@sha256:d97d00f668dc5b7f0af65edbff6b37924c8e9b1edfc0ab0f7d2e522cab162d38
```
I think it is better to leave the tag, so users know which version is deployed. What do you think?

Reviewer: Wow, I didn't know that was a valid image reference! Leave it there then!

```

Finally, let's try to create a pod with an image that it is not signed:

```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: verify-image-invalid
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test-verify-image
    image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned
EOF
```

We will get the following error:

```
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "clusterwide-verify-image-signatures.kubewarden.admission" denied the request: Pod verify-image-invalid is not accepted: verification of image ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned failed: Host error: Callback evaluation failure: no signatures found for image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Recap

```

described in the [quick start guide](https://docs.kubewarden.io/quick-start.html).

We need an image with a signature that we can verify. You can use [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) to sign
your images. For this example we'll use the image
`ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example:v0.1.0` that was signed using keyless verification. 

Obtain the issuer and subject using cosign.

```
COSIGN_EXPERIMENTAL=1 cosign verify ghcr.io/viccuad/app-example:v0.1.0
```

```
...
"Issuer": "https://github.com/login/oauth",
"Subject": "me@viccuad.me"
...
```

Let's create a cluster-wide policy that will verify all images, and
let's use the issuer and subject for verification:

```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: verify-image-signatures
spec:
  module: ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/verify-image-signatures:v0.1.4
  rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    apiVersions: ["v1"]
    resources: ["pods"]
    operations:
    - CREATE
    - UPDATE
  mutating: true
  settings:
    signatures:
      - image: "*"
        keyless:
          - issuer: "https://github.com/login/oauth"

>             subject: "me@viccuad.me"

Reviewer 3: mhmhm I would like to remove this email, I already receive enough spam from mailing lists :sweat_smile: .

The image already has 2 signatures (see `cosign verify`), a manual one specifically for the presentation (the one with the email), and one from the workflow:
```
"Issuer":"https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com"
"Subject":"https://github.com/viccuad/app-example/.github/workflows/ci.yml@refs/tags/v0.1.0"
```

We can use this one for the post without any more changes.

Reviewer 3: many thanks!
